We have two choices to formulate and
solve an optimization problem based
on an Excel spreadsheet model.
One is using Excel's solver,
as we did in the cluster analysis module.
And the other is by using
the Analytics Solver Platform.
We're going to use the ASP here,
because it has more functionality
than the Excel solver.
And we will need that functionality
in the last module of our course.
Locate and open the Excel file titled
Transportation Problem- Model.
This is the model that we
developed in our last video.
You should have the Analytics Solver
Platform loaded on your computer.
If the software is not loaded,
watch the video Introduction to
the Analytic Solver Platform, and
come back when you have installed the ASP.
Click on the ASP tab and
locate the optimization model group.
This group contains the three major
elements that we have discussed in this
module,decisions, constraints,
and objective.
Lets start with decisions.
Go to the name box located at
the left end of the formula bar.
Select Shipments from the drop down menu.
Note that this causes the shipment cells,
which are the decisions in our model,
to be highlighted.
Click on Decisions and then select Normal.
In the Model tab of the Solver Options and
Model Specifications panel
you will now see that Shipments have
been added as normal decision variables.
Now we'll take care of the constraints.
Go to the name box and
select Shipped from the drop down menu.
Click on the constraints tool and
select Normal and less than or equal.
The word Shipped appears on the left
hand side of the constraint.
Click on the right hand side text box and
then select the range G6 to G10.
The word Capacity appears on the right
hand side of the constraint.
Click on OK,
to add the capacity constraints.
Go to the name box and
select Received from the drop down menu.
Click on the constraints tool, and
select Normal, and greater than or equal.
The word Received appears on the left
hand side of the constraint.
Click on the right hand side text box,
and select the range, C11 to F11.
The word, Demand, appears on the right
hand side of the constraint.
Click on OK to add the demand constraints.
You can verify that in
the Solver options panel the two
sets of constraints have been added.
We need to add the special set of
constraints to make the decision variables
non-negative.
Go to the name box and
select Shipments from the drop down menu.
Click on Constraints and select Variable
Type/Bound and greater than or equal.
Shipments appear on the left
hand side of the constraint.
Enter the number 0 on the right-hand
side box, and click OK.
The bounds have been added to the model,
as you can see in
the Solver options panel.
To complete the model,
we need to add the objective function.
Go to the name box, and
select Total_Cost from the drop down menu.
Click on Objective, and choose Normal Min.
In the Solver options panel,
we see that the objective of minimizing
total cost has been added to the model.
Since we know that this model is linear,
we should choose a linear
programming solution engine.
Click on the Engine tab and
choose the Standard LP/Quadratic Engine
from the drop down menu.
Now we're ready to find an optimal
solution to this problem.
Click on the Model tab and
then click on the Play button.
The solution process for this linear model
is instantaneous, because it is a small
problem, but also because,
as I mentioned in the introduction video,
there are very efficient ways of
solving linear programming models.
The solver indicates that it has a
solution, and that all the constraints and
optimal conditions have been satisfied.
This means that the solver
guarantees that there are no
feasible solutions with
a lower cost than 890.
We can verify that the solution is
feasible by checking that the capacities
have not been exceeded, and
that the demands have been satisfied.
We can also verify that all shipments
are greater than or equal to zero.
If you go to the Data tab and
click on the Solver tool that is
located in the analysis group,
you will see that the optimization model
has been loaded in the Excel tool.
So the solver in Excel and
the optimization tool in
the ASP are comparable.
This is why I mentioned at
the beginning of the video
that either one could be
used to solve this problem.
Let's summarize what we have done so far.
We started with the description
of a problem and
we identified the decisions,
constraints, and the objective.
We then formulated the problem
as a mathematical model.
Based on that formulation,
we developed a spreadsheet model.
We added optimization to our spreadsheet
model, chose an appropriate solver for
our model, and ran the solver
to find an optimal solution.
The solution that we have found
prescribes the quantities to be
shipped from each supplier
to each customer.
In our next video,
we will show how to perform what-if
analysis with an optimization model.